= S3DbAssetsBackup

Generates rake tasks for backing up and restoring your database and public folder (which should also contain any uploaded assets) to and from an existing bucket in your Amazon S3 account.  The rake tasks compresses and uploads each backup with a time stamp and the config file allows you to set how many of each backup to keep.  Additionally, the plugin can be configured to generate and send a backup status report via email.

== Install

Edit your Gemfile to include

  gem "s3_db_assets_backup"
  
Then run

  bundle install

Create the config file.

  rails g s3_backup

Edit config/s3_backup_config.yml with your aws credentials and email settings

Rails 2.x (switch to the rails_2.x branch)

== Usage

Backup the production database.

  rake db:backup RAILS_ENV=production

Restore the production database (you will be prompted to select an existing backup)

  rake db:restore RAILS_ENV=production

Backup the public folder

  rake assets:backup

Restore the public folder (you will be prompted to select an existing backup)

  rake assets:restore

Send a backup status report to the configured email address

  rake db:backup:status

== Scheduling with whenever

Optionally, you can use "whenever" to automate backups and status reports. 

Add whenever to your Gemfile

  gem 'whenever', :require => false

To create the whenever config file, run the following command from the app root directory.

  wheneverize .

Edit config/schedule.rb to schedule the rake tasks.

  every 12.hours do
    rake "db:backup"
  end
  
  every 4.days do
    rake "db:backup:status"
  end

Then run the following command to write the config to your cron file

  whenever -w

For more information on the whenever gem, visit https://github.com/javan/whenever
  
== Troubleshooting and FAQs

<b>I get "cannot create ./tmp/production_dump-YYYY-MM-DD-HH-MM-SS.sql.gz: Directory nonexistent" when running the database backup to S3</b>

You need to create a tmp directory in the project root.

  mkdir tmp

<b>I get "broken pipe" when running the backup</b>

You need to create the S3 bucket you're trying to backup to.

<b>My crontab doesn't run in development.</b>

Deving on a mac?  Cron is deprecated in Mountain Lion.

== Found a bug?

If you are having a problem with the plugin, first look at the FAQs above. If you still cannot resolve it, please submit an issue here.

http://github.com/randomutterings/s3_db_assets_backup/issues